and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actionable
website SEO and B2B marketing tips
useful podcasts goodies and more you can
give it a shot over at businessgrowth
dot email
so joining me today I've got chip house
chip is the chief marketing officer over
insightly CRM chip welcome to the show
sir how we going
it's going great thanks for having me on
Sam excited to be here yeah likewise
looking forward to the show chip we're
going to be talking all things aligning
marketing with the sales team and how we
can work together to drive that Revenue
get the cash in the bank keep the team
happy and uh hopefully have as few
arguments between marketing as sales as
as possible
um so with that
why do you think it is Chip let's jump
straight in why is it the marketing in
sales historically haven't got along
I think it's the Mars Venus thing a
little bit I mean it just like from from
once we came into the profession you
know and I don't think it matters if
it's you know um
a firm that sells to Enterprises or to
small businesses man I think generally
uh you know sales sees themselves sort
of Downstream from marketing's efforts
and uh you know uh complains that maybe
hey marketing just gets to sit in their
Ivory Tower and think big thoughts and
spend lots of money and do artwork and
and they're not responsible for any real
money right the real business happens
with us the sales team and so so
marketing proved your Worth to me and
where where the leads where the mqls you
know you don't understand our buyers
what whatever it is I mean there might
be a number of different reasons that
lead to that lead to that relationship
issues but many companies struggle with
it yeah for sure for sure and we I think
most of us have been there
um especially when there's organizations
Which is less less slow these days from
what I've seen where you've got cells
out there actually having conversations
with prospects with existing customers
existing clients and there are sometimes
situations which I'm perhaps a bit
biased because I do quite a lot of
selling as well as I'm involved in our
own marketing campaigns for both web
choice and our clients
um so I've guessed I've got the
fortunate ability to dabble in between
both where I can go front lines and have
those selling conversations but I can
likewise get in in the weeds and
organized marketing and actually
understand what customers are caring
about
um
that's what the sales leaders probably
all often feel is like hey marketing you
gotta you don't know what our customers
want because you're not talking to them
every day I am and frankly you know if
there is an ivory Tower that's one tower
that has to be uh destroyed for
marketing is you have to get out there
and number one ask your sales reps more
about your customers talk to your CS
leaders as well that are broadly part of
the go to market team and the customer
relationship and understand what
customers
care about understand their pain
understand what they think is most
important for the product that you're
offering
and marketing you know needs to put that
into their DNA in their messaging
yeah yeah I mean quite a lot now I've
seen with organizations and companies
sharing it publicly on LinkedIn that
their sdrs their self-development their
bdrs or reporting to a marketing leader
like a CMO or VP of marketing yeah and
for some organizations like we had um
Aaron from a company called Hiro a tech
company in Israel and he was sharing how
that's worked for their organization he
was on the show a while back
um so it seems like some are going that
way I know some still report to sales
leaders what are your thoughts on that
yeah
you know I I I'm not sure that it it
makes that much difference I think that
the teams need to be highly aligned I
understand why people do it and and for
some organizations it might be the right
thing because in some ways the the sdrs
are also part of the top part of the
funnel if you will right I mean it's
it's sort of once there's maybe there's
a hand raise which would be the the best
kind of lead because there's already
some awareness and Affinity with your
brand but sdrs also can be you know
doing outbound or working colder leads
or something like that
um you know where there's less Affinity
with with the brand and so so therefore
the messaging that they use is much more
akin to marketing messaging probably
because you're trying to create that uh
that understanding and trust and you
know positive reaction to your brand
that may not already exist and so that's
in some ways more akin to like a
marketing kind of message than it is a a
sales message yeah yeah yeah what were
you what would you say chip are some of
the most important things that marketing
and sales need to actually agree on to
make a fruitful partnership
I you know first and foremost who are
your customers you know
um
who matters to you as an organization
and why you should matter to them that's
really really critical
um Jennifer zika marketer here in
Minneapolis Minnesota where I am based
at that phrase said that phrase once to
me and I just love it so much who
matters to you and why should you matter
to them because it really helps you hone
in on what is my value as an
organization and who am I trying to
influence and then so that ideal
customer profile that icps the the basis
of your go to market strategy but it's
also the basis of a great relationship
with sales is agreeing on hey who are we
going to talk to and what are we going
to say to them
um and so you have to understand so
again talk to your talk to your customer
facing leaders where I don't care if
that's sales or if it's customer success
uh do some research about about your
buyers right and learn about them
there's there's tools like sparktora out
there right where I don't know if you're
familiar with that but you can go
research
um who your customers are what they read
what they listen to what they talk about
what hashtags they use and then kind of
arm yourself with that and then still go
start to engage
socially you know via LinkedIn using
those hashtags following some of the
influencers they follow readings reading
what they read watching what they watch
and kind of understand you know through
that what they want to learn from your
company
who do you think should have more say
and actually because we've done a lot of
episodes on how to find ICP and how to
map out idle client profiles but who do
you think should have the final say like
should marketing talk to leadership and
say well these are I don't know 500 of
the target accounts that we want to tap
into perhaps their B2B Tech or B2B SAS
and perhaps they're all turning over I
don't know 50 million plus and yeah we
really love to speak to that VPS sales
or VPN marketing because that's the
ultimate decision making because
leadership have told us to do that
that's what we're gonna as marketing
we're going to tell our sales reps to to
start doing and start building
conversations with or should it be more
like sales reporting back to marketing
well we've tried that and we're not
getting through to the VP we're only
getting through to manager level and
that is not going to work or is there
like a middle ground you have to take or
is there anything that's perhaps worked
well with you guys over in slightly chip
that you think is quite a nice strategy
when it comes to actually Outreach or
maybe beyond that into things like
account based marketing
there's only one way to do it and
marketing needs to work closely with
sales to develop the ICP there's there's
no ifs answer buts about that because
there's who you serve today which is one
thing and it's super important to
understanding who you serve today what
pain do you solve how do you how
effectively do you solve it or are you
kidding yourselves right I mean and
obviously you're going to see some of
that in your renewal data and things
like that especially if you're a SAS
organization you're going to see it in
your usage rates and your engagement
from your customers on everything you
send but
um you know there's who you serve today
and then there's who are you
aspirationally serve those can be
different things but you have to
understand what the path is there
so and you have to understand again okay
if that's who you aspirationally are
serving maybe it's a larger customer
than you serve today you have to
understand why would you matter to them
you know like you matter to smaller
customers
um and you know uh be able to articulate
what pain you uniquely solve for them so
I mean when you're building out your ICP
right so you're going to look at six
main areas number one is firmographics
and you need to agree on this with your
sales team what's the size of company
that you're going to go after yeah um
you know either based on Revenue size or
number of employees it doesn't really
matter but you have to agree on the size
of the company you're going to go to uh
and the industries that they serve
you know sometimes a blanket strategy
can work with targeted across multiple
Industries or maybe you need to be much
more pinpointed
um also you know it may be especially
important in the tech space is
understanding what other Technologies
they use right what are their
technographics if you will Sam you know
so so are they in a Microsoft
environment you know do they what other
sales tools right for do they happen to
use show back office systems of these
that's super super critical because it
helps you understand you know how your
software can augment
um or maybe you know uh if they have
certain tools it like discludes you you
know
um you know psychographics their
business situation their business
operating model how they make money
um you know do they have lots of
resources have they just received
funding or have they you know are they
not very well resourced I mean all those
things are super super important and you
have to agree on those things with your
sales team yeah yeah yeah got it so
really mapping down exactly what makes
up this ideal client profile what
parameters around their business their
size their revenue
um any current software or technology or
anything that's relevant to how you
might serve them um like you say trigger
events life they've recently got funding
that's always a a good one to leverage
if you if you know they've got a cash to
perhaps spend on your your offer your
solution nice
um let's touch a little bit on going to
Market
um maybe we can share some thoughts or
best practices from your perspective
chip around
when it comes to outbound messaging
perhaps to start with on what you think
are some of the core components that
make a solid outbound message whether
that's telephone or perhaps email or
whatever you recommend for sales reps
and then maybe we can talk about inbound
um some kind of best practices there if
you're if you're up for that
yeah yeah absolutely and you know you
know that the outbound game has changed
a lot in the past 10 years the past even
five years right it's it's significantly
changed I think Sam because fewer people
are picking up their phone fewer people
are answering emails because
you know I mean as a CMO a lot of people
try to sell me stuff and it's just hard
to keep up with it I'm shocked half of
them are making it in the inbox frankly
you know I I can't ignore them fast
enough but I have to tell you I'm going
to pay attention if if I'm interested or
if they go the extra mile to show show
me that they actually know me and care
about me and might understand my needs
but um in terms of picking the accounts
with the sales team it obviously starts
with the ICP like talked about and
agreeing on that
um and then uh you know you you truly
have to break it down to as small of a
segment maybe industry as possible and
set of accounts that you think you can
uh impact and I think marketing's job
comes first here because we tend to be
the people with a little bit more data
access to research tools and things like
that
um and can start The Narrative of the
funnel which happens
um one of my favorite funnels is The
Hourglass funnel with which is John
janssa's idea from duct tape marketing
which is you know no like trust tribe by
repeat referrer right and so okay we're
never going to get to try and buy if
they don't know like or trust you and so
it's marketing's job I think to at least
create the awareness number one the NO
phase they need to know us and frankly a
lot of your marketing and messaging and
you know in this day and age even from
B2B are you fun are you funny you know
are you are you memorable
um are you remarkable you know as Seth
Godin says hey would you remark on would
you make a comment about a brown cow no
you wouldn't make a comment about a
brown cow but if you saw a purple cow
you'd tell everybody you ever ever met
yeah so this purple cow today was pretty
amazing and so how can your marketing be
that and so when it's time for the
Outreach from the salesperson
um you know the beach is soft softer per
se right so
um you know picking the accounts is one
thing and then like how you engage them
is the second
do you think that your target accounts
need to be warmed up somehow I don't ask
this question to quite a lot of
marketing leaders that come on but do
you think they need to be warmed up
slightly before sales reach out to them
I.E I don't know they've engaged in your
LinkedIn content maybe you've served
them some ads on LinkedIn or elsewhere
other channels maybe you've sent them uh
they've attended a webinar maybe you've
sent them a guide whatever do you think
that needs to happen first or can you
reach out to them Stone Cold
I think you can reach out to them stone
cold but it's not going to be as
effective you know I think having the
awareness there uh is more likely to to
trigger the you know the the buyers uh
brain cells a little bit more so the
wheels are already turning by the time
the sales rep reaches out and you know
frankly 95 percent of your Market's not
going to be
in in market right now anyway maybe
right and so
um you know marketing doing the work to
create the awareness will help create
that engagement that's going to create
the future pipe for your call next month
or next quarter
yeah yeah yeah and then moving it to
inbound process
yeah do you think there needs to be of
course marketing gonna work on whatever
strategies your organization is able to
do to drive inbound whether that is
SEO paid search review sites webinars
other forms of marketing ABM whatever
they're doing to fill the funnel let's
say to drive hopefully quality leads
hopefully they're qualified and are
right decision makers or a right ICP
um hopefully have budget to do business
with you hopefully hit all those
parameters that we discussed earlier but
how how involved should marketing and
sales be in terms of kind of what goes
on on initial Discovery calls whether
inbound leads from the website go to an
SDR on AE and whether we use the website
to qualify leads and then send them
straight to an a I mean what are your
thoughts around let's say kind of first
touch point between an inbound Prospect
that's almost raised their hand for a
consult or a demo whatever your business
is set up to do and then sending that to
a sales rep
yeah again I think this is this is a big
piece of the alignment like I'm super
aligned with our chief sales officer and
we have a one or multiple weekly
meetings actually we have two two
meetings you know one is with with
Finance one is just one-on-one but also
having free finance Into The Fray for
how you're spending money in January for
the business for the business I think is
really important and then when we have
one with our teams where we talk about
Pipeline and leads and Lead quality and
what's working and what's not and that's
a weekly meeting right and so so being
intentional about the alignment I think
is the first thing Sam and secondly All
Leads are not created equal right you
know so if if you're a inexperienced
marketing leader you're just trying to
hit that mql number and you don't care
right but all you know uh where they
come from because you sales if they're
if they're not if you don't have a good
relationship with the sales team they're
gonna say hey I need more mqls right
they're not going to I need more from
this Source right and so
both of you need to be involved in that
conversation
um because a Content syndication lead
um or an hql that comes in where the
relationship doesn't really exist uh you
know is one thing versus a free trial or
somebody actually raising their hand and
saying Hey I want a demo you've already
made an impression on me there's some
Affinity with the brand I would love to
to learn more you want more hand raisers
and so what would that gets assigned to
some hand raisers could go right to an e
a e maybe you know and as a sales
organization you should be tracking how
quickly you follow up because sometimes
you don't have to be good you just have
to be fast you know and sometimes you're
going to get the deal because you're
first even if you're more expensive but
anyway so I think
figure out in your organization is it
the SDR that can be most responsive in
most cases it probably is which is why
it's maybe best to send it to the SDR
team rather than the AE even if it's a
hand raiser just because they can be a
little bit more nimble
um what are your thoughts around
I mean I can see a I can see pros and
cons with sending it to sdrs like so for
to take the Devil's Advocate
um yeah naturally naturally naturally
being an SEO and web agency I I often
talk about why your website should deter
people and that it should be a qualifier
in the sense of openly sharing even in
between in Tech stuff like openly
sharing kind of what you do who you help
who you can't help problems you solve
and then qualifying people in the sense
of this is our process these are clients
we typically are able to help
um and this is our pricing obviously
that's quite easy for SAS processes
because you might have tier one two two
tier three gets a little bit more
difficult when you're service based so
you might have like our prices from A to
B depending on the size of your product
Etc
so I I'm very much of that mind but
appreciating that everyone is is
um whereby your website should do the
heavy lifting in terms of inbound hand
raises and then route them to an
appropriate rep but
that aside
um
I mean sending sending um inbound demo
requests to inbound consort requests to
sdrs is that always a good move because
what if they don't have the experience
product knowledge or
not even product knowledge but ability
to take a prospect through certain
difficult questions that may be only a
or more experienced sales engineer could
what are your thoughts there
yeah well I accept your devil's advocate
here for Jeremy because it's not right
for every organization to go through
sdrs or go through AES I think
um it and it depends on the velocity of
your funnel right but I I just know that
in these days right uh especially post
pandemic there's a lot of data that
shows that they expect you to be fast
right and so if you're not super super
responsive uh that's going to create
challenges for you and so AES you know
tend to be more down funnel focused as
they should be trying to close and
engage business and where sdrs might be
a little bit more nimble like I said to
be able to you know to do the
qualification but Amen on the uh the
great web uh website information to sort
of qualify it's your own version of
transparency sale Sam right it's just
truly hey here's who I serve here's who
I don't serve and if you like me great I
like you to you and come talk to us and
if you don't like me oh yeah you know uh
you know let's not waste each other's
time oh yeah for sure I mean that came
through my own pain point right chip
because because myself and a couple
other folks that run this company were
just getting so many inbound leads but
many of them just couldn't afford what
we did so we thought let's let's whack
our pricing on the site let's whack
could we help who we can
make makes our lives so much easier so
with that in mind
are there any other areas of inbound
that you think marketing and sales need
to discuss in terms of that process or
in terms of how they're through that we
haven't covered
well I I think um you know one of the
things that we do in our meeting uh with
with our SDR and sales leaders is we
talk about we talk about lead Source by
lead Source you know and understand the
conversion rates from
mql if you will to actual qualified
Opportunity by Channel and that I tell
you if you're not doing that you need to
do that because it's it's a huge
Awakening and by the way
um
you know there might be channels that
convert super super well by the way that
the sdrs love that the AES hate because
they can't ever close them but the sdrs
can convert them to Opportunities and
I've seen that too and so you need to
have constant
um dialogue with with your sales leaders
about uh all the different channels and
you know get feedback for what's working
and what's not yeah yeah yeah no that's
an interesting take and what are your
thoughts chip so a lot of companies
especially in Europe
um I simply see from marketing is I'm
connected to on LinkedIn are taking the
leap or have taken the leap in the last
12 months 24 months or longer moving
from the lead gen model
so they've pretty much ditched the old
school mql
um collecting email leads webinar leads
uh gated content sign ups and move
purely to focusing on sqls in the sense
that they want to create demand create
awareness for their campaign so they're
not so bothered about collecting email
addresses but more on actually building
that awareness building that demand for
their company so ultimately to create
more knowledge around the problem they
solve position their brand as they go to
in their sector so when prospects do
need their offer they're top of mind and
then they get those inbound demo
requests for the high intent buyers
which is I suppose what our sales team
wants they can make less cold calls
um but with that in mind where do you
think um what are your thoughts on that
what are your thoughts do you think
companies should ditch that model
together do you what do you guys do
insightly what are your thoughts around
that topic
yeah um I I would say we're
in the change process for this and and I
you know I I think
mqls are
largely not useful
um because
they're different definition varies so
greatly and marketers get to Define what
they are basically or it's a marketing
qualified lead doesn't matter if that's
a number out of the phone book or Zoom
info or an intent lead or a Content
download or a free trial or a demo like
I said before uh they're not all created
equal and so because of that they can be
gamed and they create the wrong
incentives the incentives are not
necessarily aligned marketing is not in
the business of creating mqls they're in
the business of creating revenue and so
the way you get aligned and this is this
is what I love about ditching the mql
you can still use them as a counting
mechanism if you want because it's you
know it's informational for how many
people you're maybe impacting and
engaging right but there's other tools
too to figure that out how many views do
you get of your post and what kind of
reach you have on your your banners your
open rates and your emails there's lots
of different metrics
and so mqls is a legitimate metric but
marketers need to start with revenue and
then work back so as a CMO I have one
goal it's my ARR goal you know and then
my because that's my sales Leader's goal
so it has to be my goal and then we work
together okay how do we work back up and
then I try to get my team in you know
focused on at least you know at the SQL
level right because then you are
thinking about where where are we really
creating the opportunities and the
opportunities that have a reason to be
qualified into being a legitimate
opportunity yeah yeah it's nice it makes
sense and to wrap things up chip in
terms of we've talked about a bit there
but in terms of Revenue and targeting
who should have the who should have the
say I mean should it just be leadership
this is the revenue number that's it
should they be speaking to sales who are
on the front line having the
conversations knowing what's actually
coming in and knowing where how
skeptical the market is how receptive
they are to the offer Etc should it be
marketing he's kind of mostly
responsible for building awareness
fueling that pipeline for sales should
be a combination of what what have you
seen work well what are some of the
issues around that
so so sorry Sam what the question is
really about who's responsible for
creating awareness or who's responsible
for the revenue number Revenue targets
and revenue numbers
how should they be decided should should
leadership take feedback from sales and
or marketing or both or should it simply
be this is your number we don't we don't
really care what you think job done
well um I think if you if you want to
have engaged
happy employees as part of the business
that you're building then I think asking
for input is super super important
that's number one but also I think you
want to really know as a CEO as a board
member is this an achievable Target and
if not I want to know why from the
people I'm trusting to lead the business
for sales or for marketing right if
they're too afraid to tell me then you
need to go get other leaders right I
want leaders who understand their
business enough to tell me when I give
them a bunk number you know
um that's unachievable you know and
that doesn't mean I'm going to be happy
about it by the way but um
I think you know let's let's all work in
reality let's all work in transparency
because if the the number is
unachievable there's some reason right
either either you don't have the team
the product the pricing the environment
you know to to get there and you need to
figure out which one of those things it
is
um yeah yeah we spoke off off that just
before we hit recording that you're
going into or you've just out of as of
February going into a new Financial year
when it comes to kind of setting annual
Targets this will be more applicable to
kind of Revenue leaders and Leadership
but that sort of thing so have you got
any best practices around that like for
example do you guys just set it up each
year we want to go for a certain
percentage more and that's fixed I.E I
don't know 10 more 20 more whatever or
does it vary a lot are there any
kind of golden nuggets of advice you
could advise around that
yeah yeah so you know I've been in the
SAS space now for 25 years and so but
most of the time in the space you know
it's been a growth at all cost for a lot
of the industry and and that's paid off
and so
you know generally there's an idea of
what growth means and it's probably
north of 20 20 percent for mid-stage to
later stage companies even in the space
for for those that are very early on
you're going to expect sometimes
three-digit growth year over year
um and so I I think you have to start
out with what's the goal what does the
board want what does the Mark what would
the market like us to achieve this year
and what's that sales number and then
work backwards from that meaning okay so
if this is my sales number what's my
typical uh opportunity to close rate you
know what's my typical ACV
and then based on that how many people
to actually have to be get engaged maybe
in mql so like I said it's a useful
counting measure uh to figure out how
many opera opportunities I can generate
and then what's my cost per opportunity
what's my cost per lead historically and
so there's there's the budget that I
need so that's an oversimplified uh view
of it but there's like eight metrics in
there that I just mentioned that you
have to know and you you know frankly as
a marketing leader you have to be able
to spot spout those off so like I can
see a revenue number and I already know
how much money it's going to cost for me
to achieve that number right and granted
that that changes over time especially
you know as we're now moving into this
uh many companies are I think you know
more efficient growth versus growth at
all costs and and so you're looking for
ways to truly engage your audience
um in ways that are not going to cost
you a million dollars but are actually
going to you know build your brand
leveraging organic channels leveraging
content that really speaks to your ICP
super important for sure for sure
um one thing to wrap up chip we haven't
touched on any any thoughts or best
practices around working existing
customer base and what perhaps what you
folks have been up to in terms of kind
of marketing and sales aligning maybe
around customer success as they're often
the ones that are talking to our
existing customers making sure they're
happy making sure they're working well
with our product or our offer and also
looking for opportunities to perhaps up
sell introduce new features or ideas
yeah and this is an area I'm super
passionate about so I'm glad you asked
about it so I I ran customer
relationship Marketing in my role years
and years ago and sort of defined what
that meant in the SAS world and for me
it was the four pillars educate upsell
satisfy retain and so those are what a
customer marketing team what customer
relationship marketing team should be
focused on working again closely with
your existing business sales team your
support team your CSM team to understand
what motivates customers
um you know what they needed more
information on are they likely to
recommend likely to renew you again what
sources of information do they use and
you know I social proof doesn't go away
maybe even becomes more important for
customers because now that they've
bought it you know they want to
understand hey what are other customers
doing so I've run customer advisory
boards and user groups before for SAS
companies customers love the the the the
the
biggest win for them is to meet some
other customer that has a similar
problem that solved it on your platform
and you need to create those
opportunities for your customers when
you're the customer marketing leader and
uh it'll pay off so we we had our best
growth year this past year than any
other year
um and because I hired a customer
marketing manager earlier in the year we
started focusing on those principles and
it really paid off yeah yeah yeah what
was that framework you said I think that
was four steps you said just to this
yeah I said educate upsell satisfy
retain and there's probably more you
know build trust you know um I like that
you know and easy to remember good yeah
good stuff Excellence excellent chip so
thanks very much for talking all things
sales marketing and ultimately like you
say we're hitting that that Revenue
number because that's that's what it all
boils down to so appreciate you sharing
your thoughts and insights enjoyed the
chat so with that please do tell
everyone more about how they can learn
about insightly best ways to get in
touch and any other ways to connect with
yourself or the company
yeah best way to find me is on on
LinkedIn and uh you know I'm at just a
chip house you can find me and in
certainly it's insightly.com and you
know we've we've been in this space for
over 11 years and thousands of customers
and
um you know I'm just passionate about
this topic
cool man we appreciate you having on the
show we will put all those links in the
show notes at businessgrowth dot
marketing and thanks once again for
coming on chip
ASM thanks for having me
no worries and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating or review
on your podcast channel of choice goes a
long way or if you're on YouTube or
subscribe is much appreciated and we'll
catch you on the next one for more no BS
B2B marketing tips and insights to grow
your Revenue see you soon